# Module 8: Performing Analytics with Azure SQL Data Warehouse

- [Module 8: Performing Analytics with Azure SQL Data Warehouse](#module-8-performing-analytics-with-azure-sql-data-warehouse)
    - [Demo 1: Integrating with Power BI and Machine Learning](#demo-1-integrating-with-power-bi-and-machine-learning)
        - [Scenario](#scenario)
        - [Utilize data held in SQL Data Warehouse in a Machine Learning predictive model](#utilize-data-held-in-sql-data-warehouse-in-a-machine-learning-predictive-model)
        - [Visualize data held in SQL Data Warehouse using Power BI](#visualize-data-held-in-sql-data-warehouse-using-power-bi)
    - [Demo 2: Monitoring a query and restructuring a table for performance](#demo-2-monitoring-a-query-and-restructuring-a-table-for-performance)
        - [Scenario](#scenario)
        - [Use the Azure portal to monitor a query](#use-the-azure-portal-to-monitor-a-query)
        - [Assess performance and make recommendations for restructuring a table](#assess-performance-and-make-recommendations-for-restructuring-a-table)

## Demo 1: Integrating with Power BI and Machine Learning

### Scenario

This demonstration continues the stock market analysis scenario from module 7. It depends on the **StockDBW** SQL Data Warehouse** and contents created during during the module 7 demos. These demos also utilze the **StockMarketProcessor** Azure Stream Analytics job and **stockmarket&lt;name&gt;&lt;date&gt;** event hub created during demo 1 in module 3. You can recreate the Azure Stream Analytics job and event hub using the following steps in demo 1 of module 3:

- **Setup**
- **Create a new event hub namespace**
- **Add an event hub to the new namespace**
- **Create a new Stream Analytics job**
- **Retrieve the primary connection string for the namespace**
- **Add an input to the Stream Analytics job for the event hub**

You also require the **StaockMarket** machine learning workspace. The procedure **Create a Machine Learning workspace** in demo 2 of module 3 describes how to create this workspace if required.

In this demonstration, you will see how to use the historical stock price information held in SQL Data Warehouse to predict stock prices based on past behavior, and present the historical data held in SQL Data Warehouse graphically. Specificilly, you will see how to:

- Utilize data held in SQL Data Warehouse in a Machine Learning predictive model.
- Visualize data held in SQL Data Warehouse using Power BI.

### Utilize data held in SQL Data Warehouse in a Machine Learning predictive model

1. Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, **20776A-LON-DC**, **20776A-LON-SQL**, and **20776A-LON-DEV** virtual machines are running, and then log on to 20776A-LON-DEV as **ADATUM\\AdatumAdmin** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
2. Using the Azure portal, click **All resources**, click **StockDBW**, and then click **Resume**.
3. In the **Start StockDWB** message box, click **Yes**, and wait for the SQL Data Warehouse to resume.
4. On the Windows **Start** menu, type **Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio**, and then press Enter.
5. In the **Connect to Server** dialog box, in the Server name box, type **stockdbs&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;.database.windows.net**.
6. In the **Authentication** list, click SQL Server **Authentication**.
7. In the **Login** box, type **student**.
8. In the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click **Connect**.
9. In Object Explorer, expand **Databases**, and then click **StockDBW**.
10. On the **File** menu, click **Open**, and then click **File**.
11. In the **Open File** dialog box, go to the folder **E:\Demofiles\Mod08\Demo1**, click **Demo1.sql**, and then click **Open**. This file contains the following command that creates a table for holding stock price information:

    ```SQL
    CREATE TABLE StockPrice
    (
        Ticker char(4) NOT NULL,
        Price int NOT NULL,
        QuoteTime DateTime NOT NULL
    )
    WITH
    (
        DISTRIBUTION = ROUND_ROBIN
    )
    ```

12. In the SQL Editor, on the toolbar, click **Execute**.
13. Switch to the Azure portal.
14. Click **All resources**, and then click **StockMarketProcessor**.
15. On the **StockMarketProcessor** blade, under **JOB TOPOLOGY**, click **Outputs**, click **+ Add**, and then click **SQL Database**.
16. On the **SQL Database New output** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Save**:
    - **Output alias**: StockMarketPrices
    - **Select SQL Database from your subscriptions**: selected
    - **Database**: StockDBW
    - **Username**: student
    - **Password**: Pa55w.rd
    - **Table**: StockPrice
17. On the **StockMarketProcessor - Outputs** blade, under **JOB TOPOLOGY**, click **Query**, and then replace the existing query text with the following:

    ```SQL
    SELECT
        Ticker, Price, QuoteTime
    INTO
        StockMarketPrices
    FROM
        StockMarket
    ```

    You can copy this query from the file **E:\Demofiles\Mod08\Demo1\Demo1Cmd1.txt**.

18. Click **Save**, and then click **Yes**.
19. On the **StockMarketProcessor - Query** blade, click **Overview**, and then click **Start**.
20. On the **Start job** blade, click **Now**, and then click **Start**.
21. Wait until the job has been successfully started before continuing with the demo.
22. Click **All Resources**, and then click **stockmarket&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;**.
23. On the **stockmarket&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;** blade, under **SETTINGS**, click **Shared access policies**, and then click **RootManageSharedAccessKey**.
24. Next to the **Primary key**, click the **Click to copy** button, to copy the primary key to the clipboard.
25. On the desktopp, on the Windows **Start** menu, type **Visual Studio 2017**, and then press Enter.
26. In Visual Studio, on the **File** menu, click **Open**, and then click **Open **Project/Solution**.
27. In the **Open Project** dialog box, go to the **E:\\Demofiles\\Mod08\\Demo1\\StockMarketSimulation** folder, click **StockMarketSimulation.sln**, and then click **Open**.
28. In Solution Explorer, double-click **App.config**.
29. In App.config, in the **appSettings** section,, in the connection string, replace the text **&&lt;YourNamespace&gt;** with **stockmarket&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;**, and replace the text **&lt;YourPrimaryKey&gt;**; with the primary key you copied to the clipboard.
30. On the **Build** menu, click **Build Solution**.
31. Verify that the app compiles successfully, and then click Start.The app opens a console window displaying generated stock price data that is being sent to the event hub.
32. Return to the Azure portal.
33. Click **All Resources**, and then click **StockMarket**.
34. Under **Additional Links**, click **Launch Machine Learning Studio**.
35. On the **Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio** page, click **Sign in here**.
36. On the **experiments** page, click **+ NEW**, click **EXPERIMENT**, and then click **Blank Experiment**.
37. In the left pane, expand **Data Input and Output**, and then drag the **Import Data** module to the workspace canvas.
38. On the canvas, click the **Import Data** module.
39. In the **Properties** pane, set the following values:
    - **Data source**: Azure SQL Database
    - **Database server name**: stockdbs&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;.database.windows.net
    - **Database name**: StockDBW
    - **User name**: student
    - **Password**: Pa55w.rd
    - **Database query**:
        ```SQL
        SELECT Ticker, Price, QuoteTime FROM StockPrice
        ```
40. In the left pane, expand **Data Transformation**, expand **Sample and Split**, and drag the **Split Data** module to the workspace canvas, below the **Import Data** module.
41. Connect the output of the **Import Data** module to the input of the **Split Data** module.
42. Click the **Split Data** module.
43. In the **Properties** pane, set **Fraction of rows in the first output dataset** to **0.9**.
44. In the left pane, expand **Machine Learning**, expand **Intialize Model**, expand **Regression**, and then drag the **Neural Network Regression** module to the workspace canvas, to the left of the **Split Data** module.
45. In the left pane, under **Machine Learning**, expand **Train**, and drag the **Train Model** module to the workspace canvas, below the **Split Data** and **Neural Network Regression** modules.
46. Connect the output from the **Neural Network Regression** module to the left input of the **Train Model** module.
47. Connect the left output of the **Split Data** module to the right input of the **Train Model** module.
48. Click the **Train Model** module.
49. In the **Properties** pane, click **Launch column selector**.
50. In the **Select a single column** dialog box, in the second list box, click **column names**.
51. In the third box, type **Price**, and then click the check mark (tick).
52. In the left pane, under **Machine Learning**, expand **Score**, and drag the **Score Model** module to the workspace canvas, below and slightly to the right of the **Train Model** module.
53. Connect the output from the **Train Model** module to the left input of the **Score Model** module.
54. Connect the right output of the **Split Data** module to the right input of the **Score Model** module.
55. In the toolbar, click **SAVE**, and then click **RUN**. When the experiment has finished running, all modules will show a green check mark to indicate that they have finished successfully.
56. Right-click the output of the **Score Model** module, and then click **Visualize**. The **Scored Labels** column contains the predicted prices made by the model, and the **Price** column contains the actual prices; pick a few examples, and compare the values in the Scored Labels column with the data in the Price column. Make a note of a few tickers and their prices for later, perhaps by taking a screenshot using the Snipping Tool.
57. Close the visualization.
58. Right-click the **Train Model** module, click **Trained model**, and then click **Save as Trained Model**.
59. In the **Save trained model** dialog box, in the **Name** box, type **Neural Network Trained Regression Model for Stock Prices**, and then click **Ok** (tick).
60. Right-click the **Neural Network Regression** module, and then click **Delete**.
61. Right-click the **Train Model** module, and then click **Delete**.
62. In the left pane, expand **Trained Models**, and then drag the **Neural Network Trained Regression Model for Stock Prices** module to the workspace canvas, to the left of the **Split Data** module.
63. Connect the output of the **Neural Network Trained Regression Model for Stock Prices** module to the left input of the **Score Model** module.
64. In the toolbar, click **SET UP WEB SERVICE**.
65. If the STEP 1 dialog box appears, close it.
66. Right-click the connection from the **Web service input** module to the **Split Data** module, and then click **Delete**.
67. Connect the output of the **Web service input** module to the right input of the **Score Model** module.
68. In the toolbar, click **SAVE**, and then click **RUN** (to validate the changes). When the experiment has finished running, all modules will show a green check mark to indicate that they have  finished successfully.
69. In the toolbar, click **DEPLOY WEB SERVICE**, and then click **Deploy Web Service [Classic]**.
70. On the **DASHBOARD** page, copy the value in the **API key** to the clipboard.
71. On the desktop, start Notepad, and paste the API key into the Notepad file.
72. Return to Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio.
73. On the **experiment created on &lt;date&gt;** page, click **New Web Services Experience**.
74. On the default page, under **BASICS**, click **Configure endpoint**.
75. In the **Description** box, type **Stock market price prediction web service**, and then click **Save**.
76. In the toolbar, click **Quickstart**, and then click **Use endpoint**.
77. Next to the **Request-Response**, click the **Copy** button.
78. Switch to Notepad, and paste the request-response URL into the file.
79. On desktop, on the **Start** menu, type **Visual Studio 2017**, and then press Enter to start a second instance of Visual Studio.
80. ON the **File** menu, click **Open**, and then click **Project/Solution**.
81. In the **Open Project** dialog box, go to the **E:\\Demofiles\\Mod08\\Demo1\\StockPricePredictor** folder, click **StockPricePredictor.sln**, and then click **Open**.
82. In Solution Explorer, double-click **App.config**.
83. In the App.config file, in the **appSettings** section, replace the **APIKey** value **&lt;YourApiKey&gt;** with the API key of the web service that you copied to Notepad.
84. Replace the **URL** value **&lt;YourEndpointUrl&gt;** with the Request-Response URL that you copied to Notepad.

    > **IMPORTANT**: Replace the & character near the end of the Request-Response URL (before the text format=swagger) with the sequence \&#x26; this is necessary because the & character is interpreted as an escape character in XML rather than a literal. The sequence \&#x26; generates a literal &.

85. On the **Build** menu, click **Build StockPricePredictor**. Verify that the app compiles successfully.
86. On the **Debug** menu, click **Start Without Debugging**.
87. At the Ticker prompt, type one of the tickers you noted earlier and then press Enter.
88. At the Date prompt, type the current date followed by a time an hour or two on from now, in the format yyyy-mm-ddThh24:mi:ss; for example, if the current date and time is 6:30 PM on September 25th 2017, you would type 2017-09-25T20:30:00, to give a time two hours later.
89. Press Enter, and wait for the predicted price of the stock at that time to appear.
90. Compare the predicted price with the actual and predicted prices you noted earlier.

    Note that the further into the future you specify the date and time, the less accurate the response is likely to be. For best results, stick to times no more than an hour or two after the current time.

91. Press any key to close the app.

### Visualize data held in SQL Data Warehouse using Power BI

1. On the desktop, double-click the **Power BI Desktop** icon.
2. Click **Get data**.
3. In the **Get Data** dialog box, click **Azure**, click **Azure SQL Data Warehouse**, and then click **Connect**
4. In the **SQL Server database** dialog box, in the **Server** box type **stockdbs&lt;Name&gt;&lt;date&gt;.database.windows.net**, in the **Database** box type **StockDBW**, click **DirectQuery**, and then click **OK**.

    > **Note:** DirectQuery mode sends a query to the SQL Data Warehouse each time the data is read. The alternative mode, Import, copies the data to PowerBI. Do not use Import mode for large, dynamic datasets.

5. In the **SQL Server database** dialog box, click the **Database** tab.
6. In the **User name** box type **student**, in the password box type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click **Connect**
7. In the **Navigator** dialog box, select the **StockPrice** table, and then click **Load**.
8. In the **VISUALIZATIONS** pane, click **Line chart**.
9.  In the **FIELDS** pane, under **StockPrice**, select the **Price**, **QuoteTime**, and **Ticker** check boxes.
10. In the **FIELDS** pane, under **StockPrice**, select the **Ticker** field, and drag it to the **Page level filters** box in the **VISUALIZATIONS** pane.
11. Select a couple of the tickers to show how their prices vary over time.
12. Resize the line chart to make it bigger.
13. Periodically (every few seconds or so) click **Refresh** to see the latest price changes.
14. Click **Save**
15. In the **Save As**  dialog box, move to the **E:\\Demofiles\\Mod08\\Demo1** folder, in the **File name** box type **StockPrices.pbix**, and then click **Save**.
16. Close Power BI.
17. Switch to the Visual Studio app console window for the StockMarketSimulation application, and press Enter to close the app.
18. Switch to the Azure portal.
19. Click **All resources**, and then click **StockMarketProcessor**.
20. On the **StockMarketProcessor** blade, click **Stop**, and then click **Yes**.
21. Click **All resources**, and then click **StockDBW**.
22. On the **StockDBW** blade, click **Pause**, and then click **Yes**.
23. On the desktop, close both instances of Visual Studio and SQL Server Management Studio.

## Demo 2: Monitoring a query and restructuring a table for performance

### Scenario

In this demonstration, you will see how to:

- Use the Azure portal to monitor a query.
- Assess performance and make recommendations for restructuring a table.

### Use the Azure portal to monitor a query

1. In the Azure portal, click **All resources**, and then click **StockDBW**.
2. On the **StockDBW** blade, click **Resume**, and then click **Yes**. Wait until the SQL Data Warehouse is running before continuing with the demo. 
3. On the desktop, on the Windows **Start** menu, type **Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio**, and then press Enter.
4. In the **Connect to Server** dialog box, in the Server name box, type **stockdbs&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;.database.windows.net**.
5. In the **Authentication** list, click SQL Server **Authentication**.
6. In the **Login** box, type **student**.
7. In the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click **Connect**.
8. In Object Explorer, under **Databases**, click **StockDBW**.
9. On the **File** menu, click **Open**, and then click **File**.
10. In the **Open File** dialog box, go to the **E:\\Demofiles\\Mod08\\Demo2** folder, click **Demo2A.sql**, and then click **Open**. The file contains the following query:

    ```SQL
    SELECT Ticker, MAX(Price) AS HighestPrice
    FROM dbo.StockPrice
    GROUP BY Ticker
    ORDER BY HighestPrice DESC
    GO
    ```

    This query generates a summary showing the highest price achieved by each stock item, and displays the results in ascending order of highest price.

11. In the SQL Editor, on the toolbar, click **Execute**.
12. Switch to the Azure portal.
13. Click **All resources**, and click **StockDBW**.
14. On the **StockDBW** blade, in the **Common Tasks** section, click **Monitoring**.
15. On the **Monitoring** blade, click the **Query Activity** graph.
16. On the **Queries** blade, click the **Start Time** column twice to order the queries by time, with the most recent at the top.
17. Click the most recent query that was run by the **student** login. Don't click queries run by **System**.
18. On the **Query Details** blade, click **Show Query Text**. The text should match the query you performed in Step 10
19. Close the **Query Text** blade.
20. On the **Query Details** blade, click **Show Query Plan**. The Query Plan shows the steps performed by SQL Data Warehouse to run the query.
21. On the **Query Plan** blade, click the first **OnOperation** operation.
22. On the **Query Step Details** blade, click **Show Query Step Command**.The Query Step Text shows that SQL Data Warehouse created a temporary table for storing Ticker information; the 'col' column was used to hold the maximum price for each ticker.
23. Close the **Query Step Text**, and **Query Step Details** blades.
24. On the **Query Plan** blade, click the **ShuffleMoveOperation** operation.
25. On the **Query Step Details** blade, click **Show Query Step Command**. The Query Text step shows how SQL Data Warehouse shuffles (moves) data between nodes in the warehouse to run the query. This query is run on every node, with the resulting data, containing the ticker and the maximum price for that ticker on each node, being copied to the temporary table created by the previous step.

    > **Note**: Shuffling data between nodes takes time and consumes bandwidth. If you find that your queries are doing a lot of shuffling, you should consider restructuring your data.

26. Close the **Query Step Text**, and **Query Step Details** blades.
27. On the **Query Plan** blade, click the **ReturnOperation** operation.
28. On the **Query Step Details** blade, click **Show Query Step Command**. The Query Text shows the SELECT statement that is performed to generate the final results. This SELECT statement uses the temporary table, which now contains a copy of every ticker and the maximum price for that ticker stored on every node.
29. Close the **Query Step Text**, and **Query Step Details** blades.
30. Click the second **OnOperation** operation.
31. On the **Query Step Details** blade, click **Show Query Step Command**. The Query Step Text shows that SQL Data Warehouse drops the temporary table when the query has finished. 
32. Close the **Query Step Text**, **Query Step Details**, **Query Plan**, **Query Details**, **Queries**, and **Monitoring** blades.

### Assess performance and make recommendations for restructuring a table

1. Switch to SQL Server Management Studio.
2. Close the existing query, without saving any changes.
3. In Object Explorer, ensure that the **StockDBW** database is selected.
4. On the **File** menu, click **Open**, and then click **File**.
5. In the **Open** File dialog box, go to the folder **E:\\Demofiles\\Mod08\\Demo2**, click **Demo2B.sql**, and then click **Open**.
6. In the SQL Editor, highlight the following command, and then click **Execute**:

    ```SQL
    CREATE TABLE dbo.StockPrice2
    (
        Ticker CHAR(4) NOT NULL,
        Price INT NOT NULL,
        QuoteTime DATETIME NOT NULL
    )
    WITH
    (
        DISTRIBUTION = HASH(Ticker)
    )
    GO
    ```

    This command creates a table with the same columns as the StockPrices table, but distributed by using the value in the Ticker column; all prices for the same ticker will now be stored in
    the same node in the data warehouse.

7. In the SQL Editor, highlight the following command, and then click **Execute**:

    ```SQL
    INSERT INTO dbo.StockPrice2
    SELECT *
    FROM dbo.StockPrice
    GO
    ```

    This command copies the data from the StockPrices table to the StockPrices2 table.

8. In the SQL Editor, highlight the following command, and then click **Execute**:

    ```SQL
    SELECT Ticker, MAX(Price) AS HighestPrice
    FROM dbo.StockPrice2
    GROUP BY Ticker
    ORDER BY HighestPrice DESC
    GO
    ```

    This is the same SELECT statement as before except that it uses the StockPrices2 table; the query should return the same data.

9. Switch to the Azure portal.
10. On the **StockDBW** blade, in the **Common Tasks** section, click **Monitoring**.
11. On the **Monitoring** blade, click the **Query Activity** graph.
12. On the **Queries** blade, click the **Start Time** column twice to order the queries by time with the most recent at the top.
13. Click the most recent query that was run by the **student** login.
14. On the **Query Details** blade, click **Show Query Text**. The text matches the query you performed in Step 8.
15. Close the **Query Text** blade.
16. On the **Query Details** blade, click **Show Query Plan**. This time, the Query Plan contains a single **ReturnOperation** step.
17. On the **Query Plan** blade, click the **ReturnOperation** operation.
18. On the **Query Step Details** blade, click **Show Query Step Command**. This time, SQL Data Warehouse did not need to create a temporary table or shuffle data around to calculate the maximum price for each stock item; this is because all the data for any given ticker is stored in the same node. This way of organinzing the data is far more efficient for this type of query.
19. Click **All resources**, and then click **StockDBW**.
20. On the **StockDBW** blade, click **Pause**, and then click **Yes**.
21. On the desktop, close SQL Server Management Studio without saving changes.

---

©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.