# Module 4: Managing Big Data in Azure Data Lake Store

- [Module 4: Managing Big Data in Azure Data Lake Store](#module-4-managing-big-data-in-azure-data-lake-store)
    - [Lab: Managing big data in Data Lake Store](#lab-managing-big-data-in-data-lake-store)
    - [Exercise 1: Perform Data Lake Store operations using PowerShell](#exercise-1-perform-data-lake-store-operations-using-powershell)
        - [Setup](#setup)
        - [Task 1: Install AzCopy](#task-1-install-azcopy)
        - [Task 2: Install AdlCopy](#task-2-install-adlcopy)
        - [Task 3: Prepare the PowerShell environment](#task-3-prepare-the-powershell-environment)
        - [Task 4: Use PowerShell to create a new Data Lake Store](#task-4-use-powershell-to-create-a-new-data-lake-store)
        - [Task 5: Use PowerShell to manage files and folders in Data Lake Store](#task-5-use-powershell-to-manage-files-and-folders-in-data-lake-store)
    - [Exercise 2: Upload bulk data to Data Lake Store](#exercise-2-upload-bulk-data-to-data-lake-store)
        - [Task 1: Create a new Storage account and Blob container](#task-1-create-a-new-storage-account-and-blob-container)
        - [Task 2: Upload files to the new Blob container](#task-2-upload-files-to-the-new-blob-container)
        - [Task 3: Verify the file upload using Cloud Explorer](#task-3-verify-the-file-upload-using-cloud-explorer)
        - [Task 4: Use AdlCopy to copy the files from Blob storage to Data Lake Store](#task-4-use-adlcopy-to-copy-the-files-from-blob-storage-to-data-lake-store)
        - [Task 5: Verify the data copy using Data Explorer](#task-5-verify-the-data-copy-using-data-explorer)
    - [Exercise 3: Set ACLs on Data Lake Store folders and files](#exercise-3-set-acls-on-data-lake-store-folders-and-files)
        - [Task 1: Create a Microsoft account for a Data Lake guest user](#task-1-create-a-microsoft-account-for-a-data-lake-guest-user)
        - [Task 2: Add the guest user account to Azure Active Directory](#task-2-add-the-guest-user-account-to-azure-active-directory)
        - [Task 3: Set guest user permissions for a Data Lake Store folder](#task-3-set-guest-user-permissions-for-a-data-lake-store-folder)
        - [Task 4: Start a PowerShell session as the guest user](#task-4-start-a-powershell-session-as-the-guest-user)
        - [Task 5: Use PowerShell to attempt to list folder contents](#task-5-use-powershell-to-attempt-to-list-folder-contents)
        - [Task 6: Set permissions for the root folder](#task-6-set-permissions-for-the-root-folder)
        - [Task 7: Use PowerShell to list the folder contents after a permissions change](#task-7-use-powershell-to-list-the-folder-contents-after-a-permissions-change)
        - [Task 8: Use PowerShell to attempt to read a file](#task-8-use-powershell-to-attempt-to-read-a-file)
        - [Task 9: Set permissions for a file](#task-9-set-permissions-for-a-file)
        - [Task 10: Use PowerShell to read a file after a permissions change](#task-10-use-powershell-to-read-a-file-after-a-permissions-change)
        - [Task 11: Use PowerShell to attempt to upload a new file](#task-11-use-powershell-to-attempt-to-upload-a-new-file)
        - [Task 12: Edit folder permissions to enable file upload](#task-12-edit-folder-permissions-to-enable-file-upload)
        - [Task 13: Use PowerShell to overwrite a file](#task-13-use-powershell-to-overwrite-a-file)
        - [Task 14: Use PowerShell to attempt to overwrite a file after a folder permissions change](#task-14-use-powershell-to-attempt-to-overwrite-a-file-after-a-folder-permissions-change)
    - [Exercise 4: Encrypt Data Lake Store data using your own key](#exercise-4-encrypt-data-lake-store-data-using-your-own-key)
        - [Task 1: Create a new Key Vault account and key](#task-1-create-a-new-key-vault-account-and-key)
        - [Task 2: Configure a new Data Lake storage account to use Key Vault encryption](#task-2-configure-a-new-data-lake-storage-account-to-use-key-vault-encryption)
        - [Task 3: Use Data Explorer to upload a file and verify its contents](#task-3-use-data-explorer-to-upload-a-file-and-verify-its-contents)
        - [Task 4: Back up the Key Vault key, and then delete the key](#task-4-back-up-the-key-vault-key-and-then-delete-the-key)
        - [Task 5: Attempt to access encrypted data without a key](#task-5-attempt-to-access-encrypted-data-without-a-key)
        - [Task 6: Attempt to upload data to encrypted storage without a key](#task-6-attempt-to-upload-data-to-encrypted-storage-without-a-key)
        - [Task 7: Restore a deleted key and verify data access](#task-7-restore-a-deleted-key-and-verify-data-access)
        - [Task 8: Lab closedown](#task-8-lab-closedown)
## Lab: Managing big data in Data Lake Store

## Exercise 1: Perform Data Lake Store operations using PowerShell

### Setup

1. Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, **20776A-LON-DC**, and **20776A-LON-DEV** virtual machines are running, and then log on to **20776A-LON-DEV** as **ADATUM\\AdatumAdmin** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
2. Using **File Explorer**, move to the folder **E:\\Labdiles\\Lab04**.
3. Right-click the file **Setup.cmd**, and then click **Run as administrator**.
4. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

### Task 1: Install AzCopy

1. Start **Internet Explorer** and go to **https://aka.ms/downloadazcopy**
2. In the Internet Explorer message box, click Run.
3. In the **Microsoft Azure Storage AzCopy** dialog box, on the **Welcome to the Microsoft Azure Storage AzCopy Setup Wizard** page, click **Next**.
4. On the **End-User License Agreement** page, select the **I accept the terms in the License Agreement** check box, and then click **Next**.
5. On the **Destination Folder** page, click **Next**.
6. On the **Ready to install Microsoft Azure Storage AzCopy** page, click **Install**.
7. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.
8. On the **Completed the Microsoft Azure Storage AzCopy Setup Wizard** page, click **Finish**.
9. Right-click the Windows **Start** button, click **System**, and then click **Advanced system settings**.
10. In the **System Properties** dialog box, click **Environment Variables**.
11. In the **Environment Variables** dialog box, under **User variable for AdatumAdmin**, click **Path**, and then click **Edit**.
12. In the **Edit User Variable** dialog box, in the **Variable value** box, at the end of the existing text, type **C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft SDKs\Azure\AzCopy;**, and then click **OK**.
13. Leave the **Environment Variables** dialog box open.

### Task 2: Install AdlCopy

1. In Internet Explorer, open a new tab, and go to **https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=50358**.
2. On the **AdlCopy** page, click **Download**.
3. In the Internet Explorer message box, click **Run**.
4. In the **AdlCopy** dialog box, on the **Welcome to the AdlCopy Setup Wizard** page, click **Next**.
5. On the **License Agreement** page, click **I Agree**, and then click **Next**.
6. On the **Select Installation Folder** page, click **Next**.
7. On the **Confirm Installation** page, click **Next**.
8. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.
9. On the **Installation Complete** page, click **Close**.
10. Return to the **Environment Variables** dialog box.
11. Under **User variable for AdatumAdmin**, click **Path**, and then click **Edit**.
12. In the **Edit environment variable** dialog box, click **New**.
13. In the text box, type **%HOMEPATH%\Documents\AdlCopy**, and then click **OK**.
14. In the **Environment Variables** dialog box, click **OK**.
15. In the **System Properties** dialog box, click **OK**.
16. Close the System window.

### Task 3: Prepare the PowerShell environment

1. On the Windows **Start** menu, type **PowerShell**, right-click **Windows PowerShell ISE**, and then click **Run as administrator**.
2. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.
3. On the **File** menu, click **Open**.
4. In the **Open** dialog box, go to the **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab04** folder, click **ADLS\_commands.ps1**, and then click **Open**. The script looks like this:

    ```PowerShell
    # Log in to Azure
    Login-AzureRmAccount

    # Register the Azure Data Lake Store provider
    Register-AzureRmResourceProvider -ProviderNamespace "Microsoft.DataLakeStore"

    # Create a new Resource Group
    New-AzureRmResourceGroup -Location "<location>" -Name "LakeStoreRG"

    # Create a new Data Lake Store Account
    $resourceGroupName = "LakeStoreRG"
    $dataLakeStoreName = "<name of new Data Lake Store>"
    New-AzureRmDataLakeStoreAccount -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName -Name $dataLakeStoreName -Location "<location>"

    # Verify that the Data Lake Store account has been created
    Test-AzureRmDataLakeStoreAccount -Name $dataLakeStoreName

    # Create a folder named VehicleOwnerData
    $folder="/VehicleOwnerData"
    New-AzureRmDataLakeStoreItem -Folder -AccountName $dataLakeStoreName -Path $folder

    # Upload the VehicleOwners.csv file to the VehicleOwnerData folder
    Import-AzureRmDataLakeStoreItem -Account $dataLakeStoreName -Path "E:\\Labfiles\\Lab04\\Exercise1\\VehicleOwners.csv" -Destination $folder\\VehicleOwners.csv

    # List all files and folders in the VehicleOwnerData directory
    Get-AzureRmDataLakeStoreChildItem -AccountName $dataLakeStoreName -Path $folder
    ```

5. Edit the script and replace the text **&lt;name of new Data Lake Store&gt;** with **lakestore&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;**
6. Replace both instances of **&lt;location&gt;** with **Central US**, **East US 2**, or **North Europe**.
7. On the **File** menu, click **Save**.

### Task 4: Use PowerShell to create a new Data Lake Store

1. Highlight lines 1-13 using the mouse, and then on the toolbar, click **Run Selection**.
2. In the **Sign in to your account** dialog box, enter the details of the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription, and then click **Sign in**.
3. To verify that the new Data Lake Store has been created, highlight lines 15-16, and then on the toolbar, click **Run Selection**. The script should respond with the message **True**.

### Task 5: Use PowerShell to manage files and folders in Data Lake Store

1. Highlight lines 18-20 of the script, and then on the toolbar, click **Run Selection**. This code creates a folder called **VehicleOwnerData**.
2. Highlight lines 22-23, and then on the toolbar, click **Run Selection**. This code uploads a file called **VehicleOwners.csv** to the **VehicleOwnerData** folder. 
3. Highlight lines 25-26, and then on the toolbar, click **Run Selection**. This code lists all the files and folders in the **VehicleOwnerData** directory. It should display the details of the single file named **VehicleOwners.csv** that you just uploaded.

>**Result**: In this exercise, you used PowerShell cmdlets to:
>
> - Create a new Data Lake Store (in a new resource group).
> - Create a folder in this store.
> - Upload a file to the folder.
> - Display to files in the folder.

## Exercise 2: Upload bulk data to Data Lake Store

### Task 1: Create a new Storage account and Blob container

1. Using Internet Explorer, go to the Azure portal at **http://portal.azure.com**, and sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.
2. Click **+ Create a resource**, click **Storage**, and then click **Storage account - blob, file, table, queue**.
3. On the **Create storage account** blade by **Resource group**, click **Use existing**, and then click **LakeStoreRG**. This resource group was created by the PowerShell script that you ran in Exercise 1.
4. In the **Name** box, type **blob&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;**.
5. In the **Location** list, select the same location as you used for the Data Lake Store in Exercise 1.
6. IN the **Account kind** list, select **Blob storage**
7. Leave all other details at their defaults,click **Review + create**, and then click **Create**.
8. Wait until the storage account has been successfully created before continuing with the exercise.
9. Click **All resources**, and then click **blob&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;**.
10. On the **blob&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;** blade, under **Blob service**, click **Blobs**, and then click **+ Container**.
11. In the **New container** dialog box, in the **Name** box, type **vehiclefeed**, and then click **OK**.
12. On the **blob&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt; - Containers** blade, under **Settings**, click **Access keys**.
13. Next to the **key1** access key click the **Click to copy** button, to copy the key to the clipboard.

### Task 2: Upload files to the new Blob container

1. In **File Explorer**, go to the **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab04\\Exercise2** folder and note that there are multiple folders and subfolders containing vehicle registration data. These files are organized by year and month.
2. Right-click the Windows **Start** button, and then click **Command Prompt (Admin)**.
3. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.
4. At the command prompt, type the following command. Replace the text **&lt;storage account name&gt;** with **blob&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;**, and the text **&lt;access key&gt;** with the key you copied to the clipboard), and then press Enter. This command should upload 216 files:

    ```Cmd
    azcopy /Source:"E:\Labfiles\Lab04\Exercise2" /Dest:https://<storage account name>.blob.core.windows.net/vehiclefeed /DestKey:<access key> /S
    ```

    You can copy this command command from the file **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab04\\AZCopyCmd.txt**.

### Task 3: Verify the file upload using Cloud Explorer

1. Start **Visual Studio 2017**
2. In Visual Studio, on the **View** menu, click **Cloud Explorer**.
3. In **Cloud Explorer**, if the account associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription is not listed, perform the following steps:

    1. Click the **Azure Account settings** icon, and then click **Add an account**.
    2. In the **Sign in to your account** dialog box, sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.
    3. In Cloud Explorer, select your Azure Learning Pass subscription, and then click **Apply**.

4. Under your Azure Learning Pass subscription folder, expand **Storage Accounts**, expand **blob&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;**, expand **Blob Containers**, and then double-click **vehiclefeed**.
5. Verify that the folder structure is the same as that under the **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab04\\Exercise2** folder, and it that it contains the same files.

### Task 4: Use AdlCopy to copy the files from Blob storage to Data Lake Store

1. Return to the command prompt.
2. At the command prompt, type the following command. Replace the text **&lt;storage account name&gt;** with **blob&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;**, replace **&lt;name of your Data Lake Store&gt;** with **lakestore&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;**, and replace **&lt;access key&gt;** with the blob store key that you copied to the clipboard earlier. Press Enter to run the command:

    ```Cmd
    adlcopy /source https://<storage account name>.blob.core.windows.net/vehiclefeed/ /dest adl://<name of your Data Lake Store>.azuredatalakestore.net/VehicleRegistrations/ /sourcekey <access key>
    ```

    You can copy this command from the file **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab04\\AdlCopyCmd.txt**.

3. If you are prompted, sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.

    > **Note**: Both the source and destination URLs must end with a **/**; AdlCopy is automatically recursive, and there is no **/S** parameter.

4. When the copy is complete, verify that it has transferred 216 files, and then close the command prompt.

### Task 5: Verify the data copy using Data Explorer

1. Switch to the Azure portal.
2. Click **All resources**, click **lakestore&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;**, and then click **Data Explorer**.
3. On the **lakestore&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;** blade, click the **VehicleRegistrations** folder, and verify that the files that were uploaded to Blob storage have now been copied to your Data Lake Store.

>**Result**: In this exercise, you:
>
> - Created a new Azure storage account and Blob container.
> - Uploaded a set of files and folders to the container using AzCopy.
> - Verified the upload using Cloud Explorer in Visual Studio.
> - Copied the data from Blob storage to Data Lake Store using AdlCopy.
> - Verified the copy using Data Explorer in the Azure portal.

## Exercise 3: Set ACLs on Data Lake Store folders and files

### Task 1: Create a Microsoft account for a Data Lake guest user

1. On the Windows **Start** menu, type **Internet Explorer**, right-click **Internet Explorer**, and then click **Start InPrivate Browsing**.
2. In the InPrivate session, go to **https://signup.live.com**.
3. In the **Create account** dialog box, create a new account for the email address **Course20776aLab-&lt;date&gt;-&lt;your name&gt;@outlook.com** and then click **Next**.
4. On the **Create password** page, enter a password, clear **Send me promotional emails from Microsoft**, and then click **Next**.
5. On the **Create account** page, type your first name and last name, and then click **Next**.
6. On the **Add details** page, select your country/region and your date of birth, and then click **Next**.
7. On the **Create account** page, enter the text displayed by the prompt, and then click **Next**.
8. On the **Add security info** page, enter a phone number, and then click **Send code**.
9. When the SMS code arrove, enter it, and then click **Next**
10. When the account has been created, on your **Account** page, click **More actions**, and then click, **View inbox**
11. Configure your account using the default mail settings.
12. Click **Let's go**.
13. Minimize the InPrivate session.

### Task 2: Add the guest user account to Azure Active Directory

1. In the Azure portal, click **Azure Active Directory**.
2. On the **Azure Active Directory** blade, in the right-hand pane, cunder **Create**, click **Guest user**.
3. On the **New Guest User** blade, in the **Email address** box, type the email address of the guest user account (**Course20776aLab-&lt;date&gt;-&lt;your name&gt;@outlook.com**), and then click **Invite**.
4. Return to the InPrivate browser session.
5. In the mail inbox, open the **Microsoft Invitations** email, and then click **Get Started**.
6. On the **Review permissions** page, click **Accept**.
7. On the **Stay signed in?** page, click **No**.
8. Minimize the InPrivate session.

### Task 3: Set guest user permissions for a Data Lake Store folder

1. Switch to the Azure portal.
2. On the **Azure Active Directory** blade, under **Manage****, click **Properties**, and copy the **Directory ID** to the clipboard.
3. Click **All resources**, click **lakestore&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;**, and then click **Data Explorer**.
4. On the **lakestore&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;** blade, click **VehicleOwnerData**, and then click **Access**.
5. On the **Access** blade, click **+ Add**.
6. On the **Assign Permissions** blade, select the **Select User or Group** check box.
7. On the **Select User or Group** blade, in the **Select** box, type the email address of your guest user account, click your guest account, and then click **Select**.
8. On the **Select Permissions** blade, under *Permissions**, select the **Read** and **Execute** check boxes.
9. Under **Add as**, click **An access permission entry and a default permission entry**, and then click **Ok**.
10. Close the **Access** blade.
11. On the **lakestore&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;** blade, click **Access**.
12. Under **Assigned Permissions**, verify that your guest account is shown, and that it has been granted REad and Execute permissions over the **VehicleOwnerData** folder.
13. Close the Access blade.

### Task 4: Start a PowerShell session as the guest user

1. On the Windows **Start** menu, type **PowerShell**, right-click **Windows PowerShell**, and then click **Run as administrator**.
2. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.
3. At the PowerShell command prompt, type the following command. Replace **&lt;DirectoryID&gt;** with the directory ID that youbcopied to the clipboard in the previous task, and then press Enter:

    ``` PowerShell
    Login-AzureRmAccount -TenantID <DirectoryID>
    ```
    > **Note**: The the PowerShell commands used in this exercise can be copied from the file **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab04\\PSCmds.txt**.

4. In the **Sign in to your account** dialog box, enter the details of the guest user account, and then click **Sign in**.
5. If you get a **You're already signed in** dialog box, click **Sign out and sign in with a different account**, and then type your password.

### Task 5: Use PowerShell to attempt to list folder contents

1. At the PowerShell command prompt, type the following command. Replace **&lt;name of your Data Lake Store&gt;** with **lakestore&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;**, and then press Enter:

    ``` PowerShell
    $dataLakeStoreName = "<name of your Data Lake Store>"
    ```

2. At the PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and press Enter:

    ``` PowerShell
    Get-AzureRmDataLakeStoreChildItem -AccountName $dataLakeStoreName -Path "/VehicleOwnerData"
    ```

    This command will return the following error: **Operation returned an invalid status code 'Forbidden'.**

### Task 6: Set permissions for the root folder

1. Switch to the Azure portal.
2. On the **lakestore&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;** blade, in the breadcrumb trail, click **lakestore&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;**, (the root folder of the account) and then click **Access**.
3. On the **Access** blade, click **+ Add**.
4. On the **Assign Permissions** blade, ensure that **Select User or Group** is selected.
5. On the **Select User or Group** blade, in the **Select** box, type the email address of your guest user account, click your guest account, and then click **Select**.
6. On the **Select Permissions** blade, select the **Read** and **Execute** check boxes, and then click **Ok**.
7. Close the **Access** blade.
8. On the **lakestore&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;** blade, click **Access**.
9. On the **Access** blade, under **Assigned Permissions**, verify that your guest account is now shownwith Read and Execute permissions over the root folder.
10. Close the **Access** blade.

### Task 7: Use PowerShell to list the folder contents after a permissions change

1. Switch to the PowerShell command prompt.
2. At the PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

    ``` PowerShell
    Get-AzureRmDataLakeStoreChildItem -AccountName $dataLakeStoreName -Path "/VehicleOwnerData"
    ```

   This command should now successfully list the contents of the **VehicleOwnerData** folder and display the details of the **VehicleOwners.csv** file.

### Task 8: Use PowerShell to attempt to read a file

1. At the PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and press Enter:

    ```PowerShell
    $path= "/VehicleOwnerData/VehicleOwners.csv"
    ```

2. At the PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and press Enter:

    ```PowerShell
    $download= "E:\Labfiles\Lab04\VehicleOwners-downloaded.csv"
    ```

3. At the PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and press Enter:

    ```PowerShell
    Export-AzureRmDataLakeStoreItem -Account $dataLakeStoreName -Path $path -Destination $download
    ```

    This command will return an error.

4. At the PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and press Enter:

    ```PowerShell
    DIR E:\Labfiles\Lab04
    ```

   Note that the **Export-AzureRmDataLakeStoreItem** cmdlet has created the **VehicleOwners-downloaded.csv** file (0 bytes), but was unable to read the file's contents. This is because the file existed before permissions were granted to your guest account and, therefore, this account does not have permission to read the contents of the file.

### Task 9: Set permissions for a file

1. Switch to the Azure portal.
2. On the **Data Explorer** blade, click **VehicleOwnerData**.
3. Next to **VehicleOwners.csv**, click the ellipses (**...**), and then click **Access**.
4. On the **Access** blade, click **+ Add**.
5. On the **Assign Permissions** blade, ensure that **Select User or Group** is selected.
6. On the **Select User or Group** blade, in the **Select** box, type the email address of your guest user account, click your guest account, and then click **Select**.
7. On the **Select** **Permissions** blade, select the **Read** check box, and then click **Ok**.
8. Close the **Access** blade.
9. Next to **VehicleOwners.csv**, click the ellipses (**...**), and then click **Access**.
10. Under **Assigned Permissions**, verify that your guest account is shown and that it has Read access to the file.
11. Close the **Access** blade.

### Task 10: Use PowerShell to read a file after a permissions change

1. Switch to the PowerShell command prompt.
2. At the PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and press Enter:

    ```PowerShell
    Export-AzureRmDataLakeStoreItem -Account $dataLakeStoreName -Path $path -Destination $download -Force
    ```

    This command should now successfully read and download the **VehicleOwners-downloaded.csv** file.

3. At the PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and press Enter:

    ```PowerShell
    DIR E:\Labfiles\Lab04
    ```

4. Verify that the **VehicleOwners-downloaded.csv** file has been downloaded to the **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab04** folder and that it has a non-zero length.

### Task 11: Use PowerShell to attempt to upload a new file

1. At the PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and press Enter:

    ``` PowerShell
    $upload= "/VehicleOwnerData/VehicleOwnersUpdated.csv"
    ```

2. At the PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and press Enter:

    ``` PowerShell
    $fileName = "E:\Labfiles\Lab04\Exercise3\VehicleOwners.csv"
    ```

3. At the PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and press Enter:

    ``` PowerShell
    Import-AzureRmDataLakeStoreItem -Account $dataLakeStoreName -Path $fileName -Destination $upload
    ```

    This command will return the following error: **Operation returned an invalid status code 'Forbidden'.**. This is because you do not have the necessary Write permission in the **VehicleOwnerData** folder in the Data Lake Store.

### Task 12: Edit folder permissions to enable file upload

1. Switch to the Azure portal.
2. On the **Data Explorer** blade, click the **VehicleOwnerData** folder, and then click **Access**.
3. On the **Access** blade, under **Assigned Permissions**, select the **Write** check box for your guest account, and then click **Save**.
4. Close the **Access** blade.
5. Switch to the PowerShell command prompt.
6. At the PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and press Enter:

    ``` PowerShell
    Import-AzureRmDataLakeStoreItem -Account $dataLakeStoreName -Path $fileName -Destination $upload
    ```

    This time, the file should be uploaded successfully.

7. Switch to the Azure portal.
8. On the **Data Explorer** blade, verify that **VehicleOwnersUpdated.csv** has now been successfully uploaded.
9. On the **Data Explorer** blade, click the ellipses (**...**) for **VehicleOwnersUpdated.csv**, and then click **Access**. Note that your guest user account has been assigned the permissions that you set in the Default Permissions Entry for the VehicleOwnerData folder in Task 3.
10. Close the **Access** blade.
11. On the **Data Explorer** blade, click the ellipses (**...**) for **VehicleOwnersUpdated.csv**, and then click **Properties**.
12. Make a note of the **LAST MODIFIED TIME** property.
13. Close the **Properties** blade

### Task 13: Use PowerShell to overwrite a file

1. Switch to the PowerShell command prompt.
2. At the PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and press Enter:

    ``` PowerShell
    Import-AzureRmDataLakeStoreItem -Account $dataLakeStoreName -Path $fileName -Destination $upload -Force
    ```

    This command should successfully overwrite the **VehicleOwnersUpdated.csv** file.

3. At the PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and press Enter:

    ``` PowerShell
    Get-AzureRmDataLakeStoreChildItem –AccountName $dataLakeStoreName -Path "/VehicleOwnerData"
    ```

4. Compare the **LastWriteTime** for **VehicleOwnersUpdated.csv** to the date and time you recorded in the previous task. It should have changed to the current system time.

### Task 14: Use PowerShell to attempt to overwrite a file after a folder permissions change

1. Switch to the Azure portal.
2. On the **Data Explorer** blade, click the **VehicleOwnerData** folder, and then click **Access**.
3. On the **Access** blade, under **Assigned Permissions**, clear the **Write** check box for your guest account, and then click **Save**.
4. Close the **Access** blade.
5. Switch to the PowerShell command prompt.
6. At the PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and press Enter:

    ``` PowerShell
    Import-AzureRmDataLakeStoreItem -Account $dataLakeStoreName -Path $fileName -Destination $upload -Force
    ```

    This command will return the following error: **Operation returned an invalid status code 'Forbidden'**. This is because, although your guest user account has Write permission on the file, it does not have Write permission on the folder. Write privileges on a file only enable the file to be appended; they do not enable deletion or overwrite. Without Write access to the folder, the attempted overwrite fails and the old file is left intact.
7. Close the **PowerShell ISE** window.

>**Result**: In this exercise, you created a guest user account in Azure AD, and then tested the ability of this account to view folder contents, open files, and upload and update files in Data Lake Store, depending on the specific permissions that are set. You used the Azure portal to manage the permissions, and used PowerShell as the guest user environment.

## Exercise 4: Encrypt Data Lake Store data using your own key

### Task 1: Create a new Key Vault account and key

1. In the Azure portal, click **+ Create a resource**, click **Security**, and then click **Key Vault**.
2. On the **Create key vault** blade, in the **Name** box, type **VehiclesKV&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;**.
3. Under **Resource Group**, click **Use existing**, and then click **LakeStoreRG**.
4. Leave all other settings at their defaults, and click **Create**.
5. Wait until the Key Vault has deployed before continuing with the exercise.
6. Click **All resources**, and then click **VehiclesKV&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;**.
7. On the **VehiclesKV** blade, under **Settings**, click **Keys**.
8. On the **Keys** blade, click **+ Generate/Import**.
9. On the **Create a key** blade, in the **Options** list click **Generate**, in the **Name** box, type **Key1**, and then click **Create**.

### Task 2: Configure a new Data Lake storage account to use Key Vault encryption

1. In the Azure portal, click **+ Create a resource**, click **Storage**, and then click **Data Lake Storage Gen1**.
2. On the **New Data Lake Storage Gen1** blade, in the **Name** box, type **lakestore2&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;**.
3. Under **Resource Group**, click **Use existing**, and then click **LakeStoreRG**.
4. In the **Location** list, select the location you used for the Data Lake Store in Exercise 1.
5. Click **Encryption Settings**.
6. On the **Encryption Settings** blade, in the **Encryption Type** list, click **Use keys from your own Key Vault**, and then click **Key Vault**.
7. On the **Key vault** blade, click **VehiclesKV&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;**.
8. On the **Encryption Settings** blade, click **Encryption Key**.
9. On the **Key Picker** blade, click **Key1**.
10. On the **Encryption Settings** blade, click **OK**.
11. On the **New Data Lake Storage Gen1** blade, leave all other settings at their defaults, and click **Create**.
12. Wait until the storage has deployed before continuing with the lab.
13. Click **All resources**, and then click **lakestore2&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;**.
14. On the **lakestore2&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;** blade, under **Settings**, click **Encryption**.
15. On the **lakestore2&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt; - Encryption** blade, click **Grant permissions**.
16. When the **Success** message appears, note the value of the **Key Id**.

### Task 3: Use Data Explorer to upload a file and verify its contents

1. On the **lakestore2&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt; - Encryption** blade, click **Overview**, and then click **Data Explorer**.
2. Click **Upload**.
3. On the **Upload files** blade, click the **Select a file** button.
4. In the **Open** dialog box, go to **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab04\\Exercise4**, click **testdata1.json**, and then click **Open**.
5. On the **Upload files** blade, click **Add selected files**.
6. After the file has uploaded, close the **Upload files** blade.
7. On the **Data Explorer** blade for your Data Lake Store, click **testdata1.json**. If the file is not shown, click **Refresh**. Note that the file contains a copy of the data about fictitious criminal offenses.
8. Close the **File Preview** blade.

### Task 4: Back up the Key Vault key, and then delete the key

1. Click **All resources**, and then click **VehiclesKV;&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;**.
2. On the **Overview** blade, under **Settings**, click **Keys**.
3. On the **VehiclesKV&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt; - Keys** blade, click **Key1**.
4. On the **Key1** blade, click **Download Backup**, and then click **Download**.
5. In the Internet Explorer message bar, click the **Save** drop-down arrow, and then click **Save as**.
6. In the **Save As** dialog box, go to **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab04\\Exercise4**, and then click **Save**.
7. Close the Internet Explorer message bar.
8. In the **Key1** blade, click **Delete**, and then click **Yes**.
9. Close the **Keys** blade.
10. Wait 2-3 minutes before continuing with the exercise.

### Task 5: Attempt to access encrypted data without a key

1. Click **All resources**, and then click **lakestore2&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;**.
2. On the **lakestore2&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;** blade, click **Data Explorer**.
3. On the **Data Explorer** blade, click **testdata1.json**. Note the **RuntimeException** and **Azure Key Vault key not found** message.
4. Close the **File Preview** blade.

### Task 6: Attempt to upload data to encrypted storage without a key

1. On the **Data Explorer** blade, click **Upload**.
2. On the **Upload files** blade, click the **Select a file** button.
3. In the **Open** dialog box, go to **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab04\\Exercise4**, click **testdata2.csv**, and then click **Open**.
4. On the **Upload files** blade, click **Add selected files**. Note the Upload Error message.
5. Close the Upload files blade.
6. On the **Data Explorer** blade, click **Refresh**, and note that the failed upload has created a 0 byte file.
7. Close the **Data Explorer** blade.

### Task 7: Restore a deleted key and verify data access

1. Click **All resources**, and then click **VehiclesKV&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;**.
2. On the **VehiclesKV** blade, under **Settings**, click **Keys**.
3. On the **Keys** blade, click **Restore Backup**.
4. In the **Open** dialog box, go to the **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab04\\Exercise4** folder, click your backup, and then click **Open**. Verify that the key was restored successfully.
5. Click **All resources**, click **lakestore2&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;**, and then click **Data Explorer**.
6. On the **Data Explorer** blade, click **testdata1.json**.
7. Verify that you can now open the file.
8. Close the **File Preview** blade.
9. On the **Data Explorer** blade, click **Upload**.
10. On the **Upload files** blade, click the **Select a file** button.
11. In the **Open** dialog box, go to the **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab04\\Exercise4** folder, click **testdata2.csv**, and then click **Open**.
12. On the **Upload files** blade, select the **Allow overwrite existing files** check box, and then click **Add selected files**. Note that you can now upload files again.
13. After the file has uploaded, close the **Upload files** blade.
14. On the **lakestore2&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;** blade, click **testdata2.csv**. The file contains some data about vehicle registrations.
15. Close the **File Preview** blade.
16. Close the **Data Explorer** blade.

### Task 8: Lab closedown

1. In the Azure portal, click **Resource groups**, and then click **LakeStoreRG**.
2. On the **LakeStoreRG** blade, click **Delete resource group**.
3. On the **Are you sure you want to delete “LakeStoreRG”?** blade, in the box, type **LakeStoreRG**, and then click **Delete**.

>**Result**: In this exercise, you created a new Key Vault and key, used this key to encrypt a new Data Lake Store, uploaded data to the store, created a key backup and then deleted the key. You then attempted to access and upload data after key deletion. Finally, you restored the deleted key and verified data access.

---

©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
