# Module 7: Implementing Azure SQL Data Warehouse

- [Module 7: Implementing Azure SQL Data Warehouse](#module-7-implementing-azure-sql-data-warehouse)
    - [Demo 1: Creating and accessing a SQL Data Warehouse](#demo-1-creating-and-accessing-a-sql-data-warehouse)
        - [Scenario](#scenario)
        - [Setup](#setup)
        - [Provision a SQL Data Warehouse using the Azure portal](#provision-a-sql-data-warehouse-using-the-azure-portal)
        - [Connect to the data warehouse using Visual Studio and SQL Server Management Studio](#connect-to-the-data-warehouse-using-visual-studio-and-sql-server-management-studio)
        - [Access the data warehouse using PowerShell](#access-the-data-warehouse-using-powershell)
    - [Demo 2: Creating tables and indexes in a SQL Data Warehouse](#demo-2-creating-tables-and-indexes-in-a-sql-data-warehouse)
        - [Scenario](#scenario)
        - [Create tables with various distributions](#create-tables-with-various-distributions)
        - [Create nonindexed heap tables](#create-nonindexed-heap-tables)
        - [Create partitioned tables](#create-partitioned-tables)
        - [Query the system catalog to examine the structure and indexes of tables](#query-the-system-catalog-to-examine-the-structure-and-indexes-of-tables)
    - [Demo 3: Demonstration: Importing data into a SQL Data Warehouse](#demo-3-demonstration-importing-data-into-a-sql-data-warehouse)
        - [Scenario](#scenario)
        - [Import data into SQL Data Warehouse using AzCopy and PolyBase to upload data via Blob storage](#import-data-into-sql-data-warehouse-using-azcopy-and-polybase-to-upload-data-via-blob-storage)
        - [Import data into SQL Data Warehouse using PolyBase to read data from ADLS](#import-data-into-sql-data-warehouse-using-polybase-to-read-data-from-adls)

## Demo 1: Creating and accessing a SQL Data Warehouse

### Scenario

This demonstration focusses on performing basic operations with SQL Data Warehouse, showing how to use it from tools such as the Azure portal, Visual Studio, SQL Server Management Studio, and PowerShell. Specifically, in this demonstration, you will see how to:

- Provision a SQL Data Warehouse using the Azure portal.
- Connect to a SQL Data Warehouse using Visual Studio and SQL Server Management Studio and perform create, insert, and select operations.
- Pause and resume a SQL Data Warehouse using PowerShell.

### Setup

1. Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, **20776A-LON-DC**, and **20776A-LON-DEV** virtual machines are running, and then log on to 20776A-LON-DEV as **ADATUM\\AdatumAdmin** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
2. Using **File Explorer**, move to the folder **E:\\Demofiles\Mod07\\Demo1**, right-click **Setup.cmd**, and then click **Run as administrator**.
3. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.
4. Using Internet Explorer, log in to the Azure portal using the account associated with your Azure pass.

### Provision a SQL Data Warehouse using the Azure portal

1. In the Azure portal, click **+ Create a resource**, in the **Search the Marketplace** box, type **sql server**, and then click **SQL server (logical server)**.
2. On the **SQL server (logical server)** blade, click **Create**.
3. On the **SQL server (logical server only)** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Create**:
    - **Server name**: stockdbs&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;
    - **Server admin login**: student
    - **Password**: Pa55w.rd
    - **Confirm password**: Pa55w.rd
    - **Resource group (Create new)**: StockRG
    - **Location**: select the same location as you have used for Data Lake Storage in previous demos
    - Ensure that the **Allow azure services to access server** check box is selected.
4. Wait until the server has deployed before continuing with the demo.
5. In the Azure portal, click **All resources**, and then click **stockdbs&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;**.
6. On the **stockdbs&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;** blade, under **SECURITY**, click **Firewalls and virtual networks**, and then click **Add client IP**.
7. Click **Save**, and then click **OK**.
8. Click **+ Create a resource**, click **Databases**, and then click **SQL Data Warehouse**.
9. On the **SQL Data Warehouse** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Create**:
    - **Database name**: StockDBW
    - **Resource group (Ue existing)**: StockRG
    - **Select source**: Blank database 
    - **Server**: stockdbs&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;
    - **Performance level**: Gen1, 400 DWU
10. Wait until the data warehouse has deployed before continuing with the demo.
11. Click **All resources**, and then click **StockDBW**.
12. On the **StockDBW** blade, under **COMMON TASKS**, click **Scale**. 
13. On the **StockDBW - Scale** blade, note that the Scale blade doesn't just let you scale the performance limit of the data warehouse up and down; you can also see how DWUs are being used and whether you are close to the limit of resources defined by the performance level.
14. On the **StockDBW - Scale** blade, click **Overview**.
15. In the toolbar, note the **Pause** button (don't click this button). Resources are billed all the time the data warehouse is running, even if it is not actively performing a task. If you are not going to use the data warehouse for a while, you should click Pause to stop the warehouse and release resources. You will not be billed for the time the data warehouse is paused.

### Connect to the data warehouse using Visual Studio and SQL Server Management Studio

1. On the desktop, on the Windows **Start** menu, type **Visual Studio 2017**, and then press Enter.
2. On the **View** menu, click **Server Explorer**.
3. In Server Explorer, if the subscription associated with your Azure Learning Pass is not listed, perform the following steps:
    1. Right-click the Azure Account settings icon, and then click **Connect to Microsoft Azure Subscription**.
    2. In the **Sign in to your account** dialog box, sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.
4. In Server Explorer, expand **Azure**, expand **SQL Databases**, right-click **StockDBW**, and then click **Open in SQL Server Object Explorer**.
5. In the **Connect** dialog box, in the **User Name** box, type **student**, in the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click **Connect**.
6. In **SQL Server Object Explorer**, expand **stockdbs&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;**, expand **Databases**, right-click **StockDBW**, and then click **New Query**.
7. In the **SQL Editor**, enter the following command to create a new table for testing, and then click **Execute**:

    ```SQL
    CREATE TABLE Test
    (
        Column1 INT NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY NONCLUSTERED NOT ENFORCED,
        Column2 VARCHAR(25)
    )
    ```

    You can copy this command from the file **E:\\Demofiles\\Mod07\\Demo1\\SqlCmd1.txt**.

    Note that SQL Data Warehouse does not permit primary keys that enforce uniqueness, hence the "NOT ENFORCED" constraint. Additionally, SQL Data Warehouse does not support clusterd primary keys.

8. In **SQL Server Object Explorer**, expand **StockDBW**, right-click **Tables**, and then click **Refresh**.
9. Expand **Tables**, and verify that the **dbo.Test** table is listed.
10. Expand **dbo.Test**, and then expand **Indexes**. Note that the table has two indexes—a clustered columnstore index created automatically over the table (this is why primary keys cannot have clustered indexes) and the nonclustered index created for the table. Indexing will be covered in more detail in Lesson 2.
11. Close Visual Studio without saving any files.
12. On the WIndows **Start** menu, type **Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio**, and then press Enter.
13. In the **Connect to Server** dialog box, in the **Server name** box, type **stockdbs&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;.database.windows.net**, in the **Authentication** list, click **SQL Server Authentication**, in the **Login** box, type **student**, in the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click **Connect**.
14. In **Object Explorer**, expand **Databases**, expand **StockDBW**, right-click **Tables**, click **New**, and then click **Table**.
15. In the **Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio** dialog box, click **Yes, This Session Only**. SQL Server Management Studio detects that you are connected to a SQL Data Warehouse database, and this is why the dialog box appeared. For the same reasons, SSMS has now generated a CREATE TABLE template that is specific to SQL Data Warehouse, and does not include the options normally available for SQL Server databases. The same is true of many of the commands available in SSMS; it filters out operations that do not apply to SQL Data Warehouse.
16. Close the **SQLQuery1.sql** pane.
17. In **Object Explorer**, expand **Tables**, and verify that the table **dbo.Test** appears.
18. Right-click **dbo.Test**, click **Script Table as**, click **INSERT To**, and then click **New Query Editor Window**.
19. In the **Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio** dialog box, click **Yes, Always**. SSMS has again tried to create a session using options not applicable to SQL Data Warehouse.
20. In the SQL Editor, delete the first **USE** and **GO** statements (lines 1 and 2), and then edit the **INSERT** statement, so that it looks like this:

    ```SQL
    INSERT INTO [dbo].[Test]
    ([Column1]
    ,[Column2])
    VALUES
    (101, 'Test row 1')
    GO
    ```

    You can copy this statement from the file  E:\Demofiles\Mod07\Demo1\SqlCmd2.txt.

21. Click **Execute** to add the row to the table.
22. To add another row, modify the INSERT statement, so that it looks like this, and then click **Execute**:

    ```SQL
    INSERT INTO [dbo].[Test]
    ([Column1]
    ,[Column2])
    VALUES
    (102, 'Test row 2')
    GO
    ```

23. Delete the INSERT statement, replace it with the following SELECT statement, and then click **Execute**:

    ```SQL
    SELECT *
    FROM [dbo].[Test]
    GO
    ```

    You can copy this statement from the file E:\Demofiles\Mod07\Demo1\SqlCmd3.txt.

    Both the rows that you just inserted should be displayed.

24. In Object Explorer, right-click **StockDBW**, and then click **Properties**.
25. In the **Database Properties - StockDBW** dialog box, click the **Options** page. Note that in the **Azure** section, you can switch the service level (number of DWUs), and increase the size of the database if necessary. Do not change anything at this point.
26. In the **Database Properties - StockDBW** dialog box, click **Cancel**.
27. Close **SQL Server Management Studio** without saving any files.

### Access the data warehouse using PowerShell

1. On the WIndows **Start** menu, type **Windows PowerShell ISE**, right-click **Windows PowerShell ISE**, and then click **Run as administrator**.
2. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.
3. In PowerShell ISE, on the **File** menu, click **Open**.
4. In the **Open** dialog box, go to the **E:\\Demofiles\\Mod07\\Demo1** folder, click **SQLDataWarehouse.ps1**, and then click **Open**.
5. In the script, replace the text **&lt;Azure Pass&gt;** with your Azure subscription name, and replace the text **&lt;Name of your SQL Data Warehouse server&&gt;** with **stockdbs&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;**.
6. On the **File** menu, click **Save**. Note that Powershell provides a significant number of cmdlets for managing Azure SQL Database, but only a few cmdlets are applicable to SQL Data Warehouse (as described in the lesson notes).
7. In the script, highlight lines 1-3 using the mouse, and then on the toolbar, click **Run Selection**.
8. In the **Sign in to your account** dialog box, sign in with the details of the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.
9. Highlight lines 5-8, and then on the toolbar, and then click **Run Selection**. This code lists the databases available on the SQL Data Warehouse server.
10. Highlight lines 10-12, and then on the toolbar, and then click **Run Selection**. This code pauses the data warehouse database; it might take several minutes to complete.
11. Switch to the Azure portal.
12. In the Azure portal, click **All resources**, and then click **StockDBW**.
13. On the StockDBW blade, note the **Paused** status.
14. Return to PowerShell ISE.
15. Highlight lines 14-15, and then on the toolbar, click **Run Selection**. This code resumes the database, again might take several minutes to complete.
16. Switch to the Azure portal.
17. On the **StockDBW** blade, note that the status has now changed to **Online**.
18. Close PowerShell ISE.

## Demo 2: Creating tables and indexes in a SQL Data Warehouse

### Scenario

In this demonstration, you will see how to:

- Create tables with various distributions.
- Create nonindexed heap tables.
- Create partitioned tables.
- Query the system catalog to examine the structure and indexes of tables.

### Create tables with various distributions

1. On the Windows **Start** menu, type **Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio**, and then press Enter.
2. In the **Connect to Server** dialog box, in the **Server name** box, type **stockdbs&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;.database.windows.net**, in the **Authentication** list, click **SQL Server Authentication**, in the **Login** box, type **student**, in the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click **Connect**.
3. In **Object Explorer**, expand **Databases**, and then click **StockDBW**.
4. On the **File** menu, point to **Open**, and then click **File**.
5. In the **Open File** dialog box, go to the folder **E:\\Demofiles\\Mod07\\Demo2**, click **Demo2.sql**, and then click **Open**.
6. In the **SQL Editor**, highlight the following command, and then click **Execute**:

    ```SQL
    -- Display the list of databases that comprise the distributions for the SQL Data Warehouse
    SELECT *
    FROM sys.pdw_nodes_pdw_physical_databases
    GO
    ```

    This command should display the names of the system databases (tempdb, master, and a few others), alongside databases called Distribution_1 to Distribution_60. The Distribution_*nn* databases are the physical databases that comprise the data warehouse.

7. In the **SQL Editor**, highlight the following command, and then click **Execute**:

    ```SQL
    -- Create a table with the ROUND ROBIN distribution
    CREATE TABLE dbo.CustomerPortfolio
    (
        CustomerID int NOT NULL,
        Ticker char(4) NOT NULL,
        VolumeBought int NOT NULL,
        WhenBought datetime NOT NULL
    )
    WITH
    (
        DISTRIBUTION = ROUND_ROBIN
    )
    GO
    ```

    This command creates a table using the round robin distribution. The data for this table will be spread evenly (at least initially, before any deletes occur) across the distributions as it is inserted.

8. In the **SQL Editor**, highlight the following command, and then click **Execute**:

    ```SQL
    -- Create a table distributed by hashing the Ticker column
    CREATE TABLE dbo.StockPriceMovement
    (
        Ticker char(4) NOT NULL,
        Price int NOT NULL,
        PriceChangedWhen datetime NOT NULL
    )
    WITH
    (
        DISTRIBUTION = HASH(Ticker)
    )
    GO
    ```

    This command creates a table using the HASH distribution, with the data hashed by stock ticker. This strategy helps to ensure that all the price changes for a given stock item will be in the same distribution, enabling reports that analyze the price history performance of individual stocks (a common use-case for this data) to run more quickly than if this information was spread across all 60 distributions.

9. In the **SQL Editor**, highlight the following command, and then click **Execute**:

    ```SQL
    -- Create a table that is replicated across every database in the warehouse
    CREATE TABLE dbo.Stocks
    (
        Ticker char(4) NOT NULL,
        Name varchar(200) NOT NULL
    )
    WITH
    (
        DISTRIBUTION = REPLICATE
    )
    GO
    ```

    This command creates a lookup table that is replicated across every distribution in the data warehouse. This data is relatively small (compared to the other tables) and static; stocks tend not to change their names very often.

10. In the **SQL Editor**, highlight the following command, and then click **Execute**:

    ```SQL
    -- Display the distribution policy for every table in the data warehouse
    SELECT T.name ,p.distribution_policy_desc
    FROM sys.tables AS T
    JOIN sys.pdw_table_distribution_properties AS P
    ON T.object_id = P.object_id
    GO
    ```

    This command queries the system catalog views to obtain metadata about the tables you have just
    created. Note the distribution type (HASH, ROUND_ROBIN, REPLICATE) for each table.

### Create nonindexed heap tables

1. In the **SQL Editor**, highlight the following command, and then click **Execute**:

    ```SQL
    -- Create a non-indexed table
    CREATE TABLE dbo.TempTab
    (
        Column1 int NOT NULL,
        Column2 varchar(50) NOT NULL
    )
    WITH (HEAP)
    GO
    ```

    This command creates a table as a nonindexed heap.

2. In the **SQL Editor**, highlight the following command, and then click **Execute**:

    ```SQL
    -- Display the indexes for every table in the data warehouse
    SELECT T.name, I.name, I.type_desc, T.object_id
    FROM sys.tables AS T
    JOIN sys.indexes AS I
    ON T.object_id = I.object_id
    GO
    ```

    This command should confirm that the **CustomerPortfolio**, **StockPriceMovement**, and **Stocks** tables are indexed using clustered columnstore indexes, but **TempTab**** table has no indexes and uses the heap structure.

### Create partitioned tables

- In the **SQL Editor**, highlight the following commands, and then click **Execute**:

    ```SQL
    -- Partition the dbo.StockPriceMovement table by the day in the PriceChangedWhen column
    DROP TABLE dbo.StockPriceMovement
    GO

    CREATE TABLE dbo.StockPriceMovement
    (
        Ticker char(4) NOT NULL,
        Price int NOT NULL,
        PriceChangedWhen datetime NOT NULL,
        PriceChangedMonth int NOT NULL
    )
    WITH
    (
        CLUSTERED COLUMNSTORE INDEX,
        DISTRIBUTION = HASH(Ticker),
        PARTITION (PriceChangedMonth RANGE FOR VALUES (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12))
    )
    GO
    ```

    These commands drop and recreate the StockPriceMovement table as a hashed, partitioned table. The data is still hashed by ticker, but is now partitioned by month (there could be a large number of price changes each month). There will actually be 13 partitions (for values 0-1, 1-2, ... 11-12, 12 and over).

### Query the system catalog to examine the structure and indexes of tables

1. In the **SQL Editor**, highlight the following command, and then click **Execute**:

    ```SQL
    -- Display the partitions for the StockMovements table.
    -- Each distribution has the same partitions for this table
    SELECT T.name, P.partition_number, P.rows
    FROM sys.tables AS T
    JOIN sys.partitions AS P
    ON T.object_id = P.object_id
    AND T.name = 'StockPriceMovement'
    GO
    ```

    This command should list 13 partitions, together with an initial allocation of space for rows in each partition. Each distribution is partitioned, so there will actually be 60 x 13 (780) partitions across the data warehouse.

2. Keep Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio open, ready for the next demo.

## Demo 3: Demonstration: Importing data into a SQL Data Warehouse

### Scenario

In this demonstration, you will see how to import data into SQL Data Warehouse using:

- AzCopy and PolyBase to upload data via Blob storage.
- PolyBase to read data from ADLS.

### Import data into SQL Data Warehouse using AzCopy and PolyBase to upload data via Blob storage

1. On the desktop, right-click the Windows **Start** button, and then click **Command Prompt (Admin)**.
2. In the User **Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.
3. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

    ```CMD
    notepad E:\Demofiles\Mod07\Demo3\StockNames.csv
    ```

    The StockNames.csv file contains a list of fictitious stock tickers and their names, and is in CSV format. This is the data that you will import into the SQL data warehouse

4. Close Notepad, but leave the command prompt window open.
5. In the Azure portal, click **+ Create a resource**, click **Storage**, and then click **Storage account - blob, file, table, queue**.
6. On the **Create Storage account** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Review + create**:
    - **Resource group (Use existing)**: StockRG.
    - **Name**: stockdata&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;
    - **Account kind**: Blob storage
    - **Location**: Select the same location that you used for the SQL Data Warehouse
7. Click **Create**, and then wait until the storage account has been successfully created before continuing with the demo.
8. Click **All resources**, and then click **stockdata&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;**.
9. On the **stockdata&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;** blade, under **BLOB SERVICE**, click **Blobs**, and then click **+ Container**.
10. In the **New container** dialog box, in the **Name** box, type **stocknames**, and then click **OK**.
11. On the **stockdata&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt; - Containers** blade, under **SETTINGS**, click **Access keys**.
12. Next to **key1**, click the **Click to copy** button, to copy the key to the clipboard.
13. Return to the command prompt window on the desktop.
14. Type the following command. Replace **&lt;storage account name&gt;** with **stockdata&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;**, replace **&lt;storage key&gt;** with the key you copied to the clipboard, and then press Enter:

    ```CMD
    AzCopy /Source:E:\Demofiles\Mod07\Demo3\ /Pattern:StockNames.csv /Dest:https://<storage account name>.blob.core.windows.net/stocknames /DestKey:<storage key>
    ```

    This command uploads the StockNames.csv file to Blob storage. You can copy this command from the file E:\Demofiles\Mod07\Demo3\AzCopyCmd.txt. It should complete very quickly.

15. Switch to the Azure portal.
16. On the **stockdata&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt; - Access keys** blade, under **BLOB SERVICE**, click **Blobs**, and then click **stocknames**.
17. On the **stocknames** blade, verify that the container contains the **StockNames.csv** file.
18. On the desktop, switch to **SQL Server Management Studio**.
19. In **Object Explorer**, under **Databases**, click **StockDBW**.
20. On the **File** menu, click **Open**, and then click **File**.
21. In the **Open File** dialog box, go to the folder **E:\Demofiles\Mod07\Demo3**, click **Demo3.sql**, and then click **Open**.
22. In the **SQL Editor**, highlight the following command, and then click **Execute**:

    ```SQL
    -- Create a master encryption key
    CREATE MASTER KEY ENCRYPTION BY PASSWORD='Pa55w.rd'
    GO
    ```

    This command creates a key for encrypting the private credentials that will be held in the database.

23. In the **SQL Editor** locate the following command:

    ```SQL
    -- Create a database scoped credential for accessing the storage account
    CREATE DATABASE SCOPED CREDENTIAL CredentialsToBlobStorage
    WITH IDENTITY = '<storage account name>',
    SECRET = '<storage key>'
    GO
    ```

    This command stores the credentials required to access the Blob storage account in the database.

24. In this command, replace **&lt;storage account name&gt;** with **stockdata&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;**, and replace **&lt;storage key&gt;** with the access key you copied to the clipboard earlier.
25. In the **SQL Editor**, highlight your edited version of the preceding command, and on the toolbar, click **Execute**.
26. In the SQL Editor, locate the following command:

    ```SQL
    -- Create an external data source that references the blob storage account
    CREATE EXTERNAL DATA SOURCE blobStockData
    WITH (
        TYPE = HADOOP,
        LOCATION = 'wasbs://stocknames@<storage account name>.blob.core.windows.net',
        CREDENTIAL = CredentialsToBlobStorage
    )
    GO
    ```

    This command creates a reference to the stocknames container in the Blob storage account. PolyBase uses the Hadoop API to access Blob storage.

27. In this command, replace **&lt;storage account name&gt;** with **stockdata&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;**.
28. In the **SQL Editor**, highlight your edited version of the preceding command, and on the toolbar, click **Execute**.
29. In the **SQL Editor**, highlight the following command, and then click **Execute**:

    ```SQL
    -- Specify the file format (CSV) of the files in blob storage
    CREATE EXTERNAL FILE FORMAT CommaSeparatedFileFormat
    WITH (
        FORMAT_TYPE = DelimitedText,
        FORMAT_OPTIONS (FIELD_TERMINATOR =',')
    )
    GO
    ```

30. In the **SQL Editor**, highlight the following command, and then click **Execute**:

    ```SQL
    -- Create the external StockNames table. The CSV data has two columns; Ticker (char 4), and Name (varchar 200)
    CREATE EXTERNAL TABLE StockNames (
        Ticker char(4) NOT NULL,
        Name varchar(200) NOT NULL)
    WITH (
        LOCATION='StockNames.csv',
        DATA_SOURCE = BlobStockData,
        FILE_FORMAT = CommaSeparatedFileFormat
    )
    GO
    ```

    This command creates an external table that retrieves the data in the StockNames.csv file in Blob storage.

31. In the **SQL Editor**, highlight the following command, and then click **Execute**:

    ```SQL
    -- Read the data from blob storage
    SELECT *
    FROM dbo.StockNames
    GO
    ```

    This command reads the data from Blob storage using a T-SQL statement. Note that you treat the external file just like a table for query purposes. However, it does not support insert, update, or delete operations.

32. In the **SQL Editor**, highlight the following commands, and then click **Execute**:

    ```SQL
    -- Drop and recreate the Stocks table and copy the data from blob storage
    DROP TABLE dbo.Stocks
    GO
    CREATE TABLE dbo.Stocks
    WITH
    (
        DISTRIBUTION = REPLICATE
    )
    AS SELECT Ticker, Name
    FROM StockNames
    GO
    ```

    These commands drop and rebuild the replicated Stocks table, copying data from the external table (the data is copied to every distribution in the data warehouse).

33. In the **SQL Editor**, highlight the following command, and then click **Execute**:

    ```SQL
    -- Query the Stocks table
    SELECT *
    FROM dbo.Stocks
    GO
    ```

    The same data as before should appear. The difference is that the data is now being retrieved from the data warehouse; you can now insert, update, and delete rows.

### Import data into SQL Data Warehouse using PolyBase to read data from ADLS

1. Switch to the Azure portal.
2. Click **Azure Active Directory**.
3. On the Azure Active Directory blade, in the right-pane, under **Create**, click **App registration**.
4. On the **Create** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Create**:
    - **Name**: ADLSToPolyBase
    - **Application type**: Web app/API
    - **Sign-on URL**: https://ADLSToPolyBase/Dummy

    The actual URL entered on this blade is immaterial because we never actually build or deploy an app at this location; it is merely acting as an identifier in this example.

5. Close the **Create** blade.
6. On the Azure Active Directory blade, under **MANAGE**, click **App registrations**.
7. Click **View all applications**, and then click the **ADLSToPolyBase** application.
8. On the **ADLSToPolyBase** blade, next to **Application ID**, click the **Click to copy** button.
9. On the desktop, on the Windows **Start** menu, type **Notepad**, and then press Enter.
10. In Notepad, type &lt;application ID&gt;, and press Enter.
11. On the **Edit** menu, click **Paste**, to store the copied Application ID.
12. On the **File** menu, click **Save**, and save the file as **App_details.txt** in your Documents folder.
13. Return to the Azure portal.
14. On the **ADLSToPolyBase** blade, click **Settings**.
15. On the **Settings** blade, under **API ACCESS**, click **Keys**.
16. On the **Keys** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Save**:
    - **DESCRIPTION**: Key1
    - **EXPIRES**: In 1 year
17. Copy the contents of the **VALUE** box to the clipboard.
18. Switch to Notepad.
19. Press CTRL+END, press Enter twice, type **Key1**, and then press Enter.
20. On the **Edit** menu, and then click **Paste**, to store the API key.
21. Return to the Azure portal.
22. Close the **Keys**, **Settings**, and **ADLSToPolyBase** blades.
23. On the Azure Active Directory blade, under **MANAGE**, click **Properties**.
24. On the **Properties** blade, next to **Directory ID**, click the **Click to copy** button.
25. Switch to Notepad.
26. Press CTRL+END, press Enter twice, type **Directory ID**, and then press Enter.
27. On the **Edit** menu, click **Paste**, to store the Directory ID.
28. On the **File** menu, click **Save**.
29. Return to the Azure portal.
30. Click **+ Create a resource**, click **Storage**, and then click **Data Lake Storage Gen1**.
31. On the **New Data Lake Storage Gen1** blade, enter the following details and then clcik **Create**:
    - **Name**: stock&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;
    - **Resource group (Use existing)**: StockRG
    - **Location**: Select the same location that you used for the SQL Data Warehouse.
32. Wait until the storage has deployed before continuing with the demo.
33. In the Azure portal, click **All resources**, and then click **stock&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;**.
34. On the **stock&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;** blade, click **Data explorer**, and then click **New Folder**.
35. In the **Create new folder** box, type **Stocks**, and then click **OK**.
36. On the **stock&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;** blade, click **Stocks**, and then click **New Folder**.
37. In the **Create new folder** box, type **2017**, and then click **OK**.
38. On the **stock&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;** blade, click **2017**, and then click **New Folder**.
39. In the **Create new folder** box, type **08**, and then click **OK**.
40. On the **stock&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;** blade, click **08**, and then click **New Folder**.
41. In the **Create new folder** box, type **27**, and then click **OK**.
42. On the **stock&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;** blade, click **New Folder**.
43. In the **Create new folder** box, type **28**, and then click **OK**.
44. Repeat steps 42 and 43 to create folders called **29** and **30**.
45. On the **stock&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt**; blade, click **27**, and then click **Upload**.
46. On the **Upload files** blade, click the **Select a file** button.
47. In the **Open** dialog box, go to the folder **E:\\Demofiles\\Mod07\\Demo3\\Stocks\\2017\\08\\27**, click **Prices.csv**, and then click **Open**.
48. On the **Upload files** blade, click **Add selected files**.
49. When the file has uploaded, close the **Upload files** blade.
50. On the **stock&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;** blade, in the breadcrumb trail, click **08**.
51. Repeat steps 45-50 to upload the relevant **Prices.csv** files to folders **28**, **29** and **30**.
52. On the **stock&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;** blade, in the breadcrumb trail, click **stock&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;**, and then click **Access**.
53. On the **Access** blade, click **+ Add**.
54. On the **Select User or Group** blade, click **ADLSToPolyBase**, and then click **Select**.
55. On the **Select Permissions** blade, select the **Read**, **Write**, and **Execute** check boxes, click **This folder and all children**, and then click **OK**.
56. To verify the permissions assignment, perform the following steps:
    - Close the **Access** blade. 
    - On the **stock&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;** blade, click **Access**.
    - Under **Assigned Permissions**, verify that **ADLSToPolyBase** is now shown with the permissions that you have just assigned.
57. Close the **Access** blade.
58. On the desktop, switch to **SQL Server Management Studio**.
59. In the **SQL Editor**, in the **Demo3.sql** pane, locate the following command:

    ```SQL
    -- Create a credential for ADLS. Specify the identity information from the AAD application
    CREATE DATABASE SCOPED CREDENTIAL ADLCredential
    WITH
        IDENTITY = '<application ID>@https://login.windows.net/<directory ID>/oauth2/token',
        SECRET = '<key>'
    GO
    ```

    In this command, replace **&lt;application ID&gt;**, **&lt;directory ID&gt;**, and **&lt;key&gt;** with the values you saved to the App_details.txt file in Notepad.

60. In the **SQL Editor**, highlight your edited version of the preceding command, and on the toolbar, click **Execute**.
61. In the **SQL Editor**, locate the following command:

    ```SQL
    -- Create an external data source that references the ADLS account using this credential
    CREATE EXTERNAL DATA SOURCE ADLSource
    WITH (
        TYPE = HADOOP,
        LOCATION = 'adl://<ADLS Account Name>.azuredatalakestore.net',
        CREDENTIAL = ADLCredential
    )
    GO
    ```

    In this command, replace **&lt;ADLS Account Name&gt;** with **stock&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;**.

62. In the **SQL Editor**, highlight your edited version of the preceding command, and on the toolbar, click **Execute**.
63. In the **SQL Editor**, highlight the following command, and then click **Execute**:

    ```SQL
    -- Define the format of the data in ADLS
    CREATE EXTERNAL FILE FORMAT CsvTextFileFormat
    WITH (
        FORMAT_TYPE = DelimitedText,
        FORMAT_OPTIONS (
            FIELD_TERMINATOR = ',',
            STRING_DELIMITER = '"',
            DATE_FORMAT = 'yyyy-MM-dd',
            USE_TYPE_DEFAULT = FALSE
        ));
    GO
    ```

64. In the **SQL Editor**, highlight the following command, and then click **Execute**:

    ```SQL
    -- Create an external table for stock prices
    CREATE EXTERNAL TABLE ADLStockPrices (
        Ticker char(4) NOT NULL,
        Price int NOT NULL,
        QuoteTime varchar(50) )
    WITH (
        LOCATION='/Stocks/',
        DATA_SOURCE = ADLSource,
        FILE_FORMAT = CsvTextFileFormat
    );
    GO
    ```

    This table spans all of the files in the Stocks folder and subfolders. The data comprises the stock ticker, price, and price quote date/time.

65. In the **SQL Editor**, highlight the following command, and then click **Execute**:

    ```SQL
    -- Read the data from ADLS
    SELECT *
    FROM ADLStockPrices
    GO
    ```

    This command should retrieve 46414 records.

66. In the **SQL Editor**, highlight the following commands, and then click **Execute**:

    ```SQL
    -- Drop and recreate the StockPriceMovement table in the data warehouse
    DROP TABLE StockPriceMovement
    GO

    CREATE TABLE StockPriceMovement
    WITH
    (
        DISTRIBUTION = HASH(Ticker)
    )
    AS SELECT Ticker, Price, CONVERT(DateTime, SUBSTRING(QuoteTime, 1, 23), 126) AS PriceChangedWhen -- ISO8601 date/time format
    FROM ADLStockPrices
    GO
    ```

    This command should copy all 46,414 rows from ADLS to the StockPriceMovement table in the data warehouse; the date and time (that was initially mapped to varchar data) is converted into proper DateTime data.

67. In the **SQL Editor**, highlight the following command, and then click **Execute**:

    ```SQL
    -- Display the data in the StockPriceMovement table in the data warehouse
    SELECT *
    FROM StockPriceMovement
    GO
    ```

    The data now shows current ticker price, and when that price changed, in a proper DateTime format.

68. Close SQL Server Management Studio. Save changes when prompted.

---

©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.