# Module 2: Processing Event Streams using Azure Stream Analytics
- [Module 2: Processing Event Streams using Azure Stream Analytics](#module-2-processing-event-streams-using-azure-stream-analytics)
    - [Demo 1: Create and run a Stream Analytics job](#demo-1-create-and-run-a-stream-analytics-job)
        - [Setup](#setup)
        - [Create a Stream Analytics job](#create-a-stream-analytics-job)
        - [Configure a Stream Analytics job input](#configure-a-stream-analytics-job-input)
        - [Configure a Stream Analytics job output](#configure-a-stream-analytics-job-output)
        - [Configure a Stream Analytics job query](#configure-a-stream-analytics-job-query)
        - [Start a Stream Analytics job and Visual Studio application](#start-a-stream-analytics-job-and-visual-studio-application)
        - [Visualize the result using Power BI](#visualize-the-result-using-power-bi)
    - [Demo 2: Run and manage Stream Analytics jobs](#demo-2-run-and-manage-stream-analytics-jobs)
        - [Setup](#setup)
        - [Prepare the PowerShell script](#prepare-the-powershell-script)
        - [Register the Microsoft Insights provider](#register-the-microsoft-insights-provider)
        - [Configure diagnostics for the VehicleAnalytics job](#configure-diagnostics-for-the-vehicleanalytics-job)
        - [Run the VehicleAnalytics job and capture diagnostics](#run-the-vehicleanalytics-job-and-capture-diagnostics)
        - [View the diagnostics](#view-the-diagnostics)
  
## Demo 1: Create and run a Stream Analytics job

### Setup

> **Important**: Due to the CPU-intensive nature of some of the tasks performed by the applications in these demos, it is recommended that you assign at least 4 virtual processors to the 20776A-LON-DEV VM before starting these demos. To do this, perform the following steps:
>   1. Shutdown the 20776A-LON-DEV VM if it is currently running
>   2. Using Hyper-V Manager, right-click the 20776A-LON-DEV VM, and then click **Settings**
>   3. Click **Processor**
>   4. In the **Processor** pane, increase **Number of virtual processors** to 4
>   5. Click **OK**
>   6. Restart the 20776A-LON-DEV VM

1. Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, **20776A-LON-DC**, and **20776A-LON-DEV** virtual machines are running, and then log on to 20776A-LON-DEV as **ADATUM\\AdatumAdmin** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
2. Using Windows Explorer, move to the folder **E:\\Demofiles\\Mod02**, and run the script **Setup.cmd** as administrator.
3. Using Internet Explorer, log in to the Azure portal using the account associated with your Azure pass.
4. In the Azure portal, click **+ Create a resource**, click **Internet of Things**, and then click **Event Hubs**.
5. On the **Create Namespace Event Hubs** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Create**:
    - **Name**: cameras&lt;your_initials&gt;&lt;day number of month&gt;. For example, camerasjs30
    - **Pricing tier**: Standard
    - **Resource group**: Create new, and name it Cameras
    - **Location**: Your nearest location
    - **Throughput Units**: 1
6. When the event hub namespace has been created, click **All resources**, and then click **cameras&lt;your_initials&gt;&lt;day number of month&gt;**
7. On the **cameras&lt;your_initials&gt;&lt;day number of month&gt; Event Hubs Namespace** blade, click **+ Event Hub**.
8. On the **Create Event Hub Events Hubs** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Create**:
   - **Name**: vehicles
   - **Partition Count**: 16
9. On the **cameras&lt;your_initials&gt;&lt;day number of month&gt; Event Hubs Namespace** blade, under **Settings**, click **Shared access policies**.
10. On the **cameras&lt;your_initials&gt;&lt;day number of month&gt; - Shared access policies** blade, click **RootManageSharedAccessKey**.
11. On the **SAS Policy: RootManageSharedAccessKey** blade, make a note of the **Connection string-primary key** value (copy it to the clipboard), and then close the **SAS Policy: RootManageSharedAccessKey** blade.
12. On the desktop, start **Visual Studio**, and open the **VehicleTypeCapture** solution in the **E:\\Demofiles\\Mod2\\VehicleTypeCapture** folder.
13. In **Solution Explorer**, in the **VehicleTypeCapture** project, double-click the **App.config** file.
14. In the **App.config** file, replace the entire value for the **Microsoft.ServiceBus.ConnectionString** value with the connection string in the clipboard.
15. On the **Build** menu, click **Rebuild Solution** (don't run the solution yet).

### Create a Stream Analytics job

1. Return to the Azure portal, click **+ Create a resource**, click **Analytics**, and then click **Stream Analytics job**.
2. On the **New Stream Analytics job** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Create**.
    - **Job name**: VehicleAnalytics
    - **Resource group**: Cameras
    - **Location**:  Specify the same location as you used for the event hub namespace
    - **Streaming units**: 3
3. Wait until the Stream Analytics job has deployed before continuing with the demo.

### Configure a Stream Analytics job input

1. In the Azure portal, click **All resources**, and then click **VehicleAnalytics**.
2. On the **VehicleAnalytics Stream Analytics job** blade, under **Job Topology**, and then click **Inputs**.
3. On the **VehicleAnalytics - Inputs** blade, click **+Add stream input**, and then click **Event Hub**.
4. On the **Event Hub New input** blade, enter the following details and then click **Save**:
    - **Input alias**: VehicleData
    - **Select Event Hub from your subscriptions**: selected
    - **Event Hub namespace**: cameras&lt;your_initials&gt;&lt;day number of month&gt;
    - **Event Hub name**: Use existing, vehicles
    - **Event Hub policy name**: RootManageSharedAccessKey
    - **Event Hub consumer group**: Leave blank
5. Wait until the input has been successfully created before continuing with the demo.

### Configure a Stream Analytics job output

1. On the **VehicleAnalytics - Inputs** blade, under **Job Topology**, click **Outputs**.
2. On the **VehicleAnalytics - Outputs** blade, click **+Add**, and then click **Power BI**.
3. On the **Power BI New output** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Save**:
    - **Output alias**: VisualStats
    - **Dataset Name**: VehicleData
    - **Table Name**: VehicleData
    - Click **Authorize**, and specify the credentials for your Power BI account. If you don't currently have a Power BI acount, click **Sign up** and follow the instructions to create one.
4. Wait until the output has been successfully created before continuing with the demo.

### Configure a Stream Analytics job query

1. On the **VehicleAnalytics - Outputs** blade, under **Job Topology**, click **Query**.
2. On the **VehicleAnalytics - Query** blade, replace the template query text with the following statement:

    ```SQL
    SELECT
        COUNT(*) AS Num, VehicleType
    INTO
        VisualStats
    FROM
        VehicleData
    TIMESTAMP BY
        time
    GROUP BY
        TumblingWindow(second , 5), VehicleType
    ```

You can copy this statement from the file **E:\\Demofiles\\Mod02\\Demo1Cmd.txt**.

3. Click **Save**, and then click **Yes**.

### Start a Stream Analytics job and Visual Studio application

1. On the **VehicleAnalytics - Query** blade, click **Overview**, and then click **Start**.
2. On the **Start job VehicleAnalytics** blade, click **Now**, and then click **Start**.
3. Wait until the job has successfully started before continuing with the demo.
4. Switch to Visual Studio, and then press **F5** to run the **VehicleTypeCapture** application. Explain that this app simulates a set of roadside traffic observation cameras. The data that it captures is currently limited to the type of vehicles (Truck, Car, Motorbike, Other) that pass the cameras. Leave the app running while you continue with the rest of the demo.

### Visualize the result using Power BI

1. In **Internet Explorer**, open a new tab, and go to **https://powerbi.microsoft.com**.
2. On the Power BI page, if prompted, sign in using your Power BI account credentials.
3. Click **My Workspace**, and then click **DataSets**. Verify that a streaming dataset named **VehicleData** is available.
4. Click **+ Create**, and then click **Dashboard**.
5. In the **Create dashboard** dialog box, in the **Dashboard name** box, type **Vehicles**, and then click **Create**.
6. Click **+ Add tile**.
7. On the **Add tile** blade, under **REAL-TIME DATA**, click **Custom Streaming Data**, and then click **Next**.
8. On the **Add a custom streaming data tile** blade, click **VehicleData**, and then click **Next**.
9. On the **Add a custom streaming data tile** blade, in the **Visualization Type** list, click **Clustered column chart**.
10. Under **Legend**, click **Add value**, and then select **vehicletype**.
11. Under **Value**, click **Add value**, and then select **num**.
12. Under **Time window to display**, specify 5 seconds, and then click **Next**.
13. On the **Tile details** blade, in the title box, type **Vehicle Rate**, and then click **Apply**.
14. Leave the tile to display for a few minutes; point out that it is updated every five seconds, showing the number of vehicles of each type that were observed by the cameras in that interval.
15. Switch to the Azure portal, and on the **VehicleAnalytics Stream Analytics job** blade, click **Stop**, and then click **Yes**.
16. Switch to the Visual Studio app window (where the data is being generated), and press Enter to stop the app.
17. Leave the Azure portal and Visual Studio open, ready for the next demo.

## Demo 2: Run and manage Stream Analytics jobs

> **Note:** This demonstration assumes that you have completed demo 1.

### Setup

1. Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, **20776A-LON-DC**, and **20776A-LON-DEV** virtual machines are running, and then log on to 20776A-LON-DEV as **ADATUM\\AdatumAdmin** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
2. Log in to the Azure portal using the account associated with your Azure pass.
3. In the Azure portal, click **+ Create a resource**, click **Storage**, and then click **Storage account - blob, file, table, queue**.
4. On the **Create storage account** blade, enter the following details, leave other settings at their default value, and then click **Create**:
    - **Name**: jobstore&lt;your_initials&gt;&lt;day number of month&gt;
    - **Location**: specify your nearest location
    - **Resource group**: Use existing, Cameras
5. Wait for the storage account to be created before continuing.

### Prepare the PowerShell script

1. On the Windows **Start** menu, open **Windows PowerShell ISE** as administator if it is not, right-click **Windows PowerShell ISE**, and then click **Run as administrator**.
2. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.
3. In PowerShell ISE, on the **File** menu, click **Open**.
4. In the **Open** dialog box, go to the folder **E:\\Demofiles\\Mod02**, click **RunASAJob.ps1**, and click **Open**.
5. Edit the following values:
    - **\$storeAccountName**: replace jobstore&lt;yourname&gt;&lt;date&gt; (line 5) with the name of the storage account you created in the Setup section.
    - **\$location**: replace &lt;your location&gt; with the location you used in Demo 1; note this must be alowercase string with no spaces (for example, “West US” should appear as “westus”).
    - **\$subName**: If you are not using an Azure Pass, replace the $subName value with the name of your subscription.
6. On the **File** menu, click **Save**.

### Register the Microsoft Insights provider

1. Return to the Azure portal, and then click **All services**.
2. On the **All services** blade, click **Subscriptions**.
3. On the **Subscriptions** blade, click your subscription.
4. On the subscription blade, under **Settings**, click **Resource providers**.
5. In the providers list, locate the **microsoft.insights provider**, and then click **Register**.
6. Wait until the status shows as Registered before continuing with the demo; this might take several minutes, and you may need to click Refresh to see the updated status.

### Configure diagnostics for the VehicleAnalytics job

1. In the Azure portal, click **All resources**, and then click **VehicleAnalytics**.
2. On the **VehicleAnalytics Stream Analytics job** blade, under **MONITORING**, click **Diagnostics logs**.
3. Click **Turn on diagnostics**.
4. On the **Diagnostics settings** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Save**:
    - **Name**: Vehicle Analytics Diagnostics
    - **Archive to a storage account**: checked.
    - Click **Storage account Configure**, in the Storage account list, click jobstore&lt;yourname&gt;&lt;date&gt;, and then click **OK**.
    - **Execution**: Selected; Retention 1 day
    - **Authoring**: Selected; Retention 1 day
    - **AllMetrics**: Selected; Retention 1 day
5. Wait for the diagnostics to be configured, and then close the **Diagnostics settings** blade.

### Run the VehicleAnalytics job and capture diagnostics

1. Switch to the desktop and return to PowerShell ISE.
2. Walk through the script and explain that it performs the following tasks:
    - Logs in to your Azure account
    - Retrieves information about the VehicleAnalytics jobs
    - Creates a storage account if you have not already set it up
    - Configures the VehicleAnalytics job to capture all diagnostics when it runs
    - Starts the VehicleAnalytics job, allows it to run for 2 minutes, and then shuts it down again    - 
3. On the **File** menu, click **Run**.
4. In the **Sign in to your account** dialog box, sign in to your Azure account.

    The script will show some information about your Azure resources as it proceeds, and after a couple of minutes, will display the message **Job Running**.

5. Switch to Visual Studio, and press F5 to run the VehicleTypeCapture application to generate vehicle data.
6. Switch to the PowerShell ISE, and wait until the **Stopping Job** message appears (after two minutes).
7. Switch to the Visual Studio app window (where the data is being generated), and press Enter to stop the app.

### View the diagnostics

1. On the Windows **Start** menu, type **Microsoft Azure Storage Explorer**, and then press Enter.
2. In the **Connect to Azure Storage** dialog box, ensure that **Add an Azure Account** is selected, and then click **Sign in**. If the **Connect to Azure Storage** dialog box is not displayed, click the **Add Account** icon in the left hand toolbar.
3. In the Sign in to your account dialog box, log in to your Azure account.
4. Select your Azure Learning Pass subscription check box, and then click **Apply**.
5. In the **EXPLORER** pane, under your Azure Learning Pass subscription, under **Storage Accounts**, expand **jobstore&lt;yourname&gt;&lt;date&gt;**.
6. Expand **Blob Containers**, and then point out the folders for insights-logs-authoring and insightslogs-execution.
7. Click **insights-logs-execution**, and then on the toolbar, click **Download**.
8. In the **Select a folder to save the downloaded blobs into** dialog box, go to the **E:\\Demofiles\\Mod02** folder, and then click **Select Folder**.
9. Using **File Explorer**, go to to the **E:\\Demofiles\\Mod02\\resourceId=** folder, and then in the **Search** box, type **.json**.
10. Right-click the JSON file, point to **Open with**, and then click **Choose another app**.
11. In the **How do you want to open this file?** dialog box, click More apps, click **Microsoft VisualvStudio Version Selector**, select the **Always use this app to open .json files**, and then click **OK**.
12. In the log file, point out the various labels for each log entry, such as time and status.
13. Close Visual Studio, and then close Microsoft Azure Storage Explorer.

---

©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
